# Eclipse Dirigible Basics
### Working with Data Structures
##### Date: 2018-10-28_16-38-37
##### Author: npd

## Pre-requisites
This is the first example in the Basics Tutorial when using Dirigible. As such, no prior knowledge is required, but
it is necessary to use the same terminology from now on. For this reason we will go over the layout of the IDE
and its basic features.

### Workspace management
The workspace is divided between several different panels.
On the left we have the Workspace explorer, right next to it the Current view, below that
Preview/Properties/Security manager clustered together and below that the Console/Log files.
In addition, we have the Menu bar and Status bar on top of and below everything else respectively.
Last but not least -- Perspective menu, which contains links to the Database, Debug, Help and Repository windows, among others.

## Context
In the video you will learn how to create a new Dirigible project, do basic tasks involving Data Structures and
pre-populate them with synthetic data. For more information visit the [Dirigible home page](http://dirigible.io/)

## Procedure

1. Right click inside the Workspace explorer
    1. *New*->*Project*
    2. Name your project and click *Next*
    3. Select the type of application you are want to start with. Choose Blank in this case.
2. We will create a sample SQL table and fill it with data. Right click on the newly created project
    1. *New*->*Data structure*
    2. Select *Relational Database Table*
    3. Select *Add* on the bottom left side of the window
    4. Add every column and its constraints to the table. For example ID, name, address, telephone number
    5. Click *Next* when done with the table schema
    6. Name the file containing the schema appropriately
    7. Click *Finish*
3. Right click on the same project and select *Publish*. This will allow us to work with it form the different perspectives.
4. Select *Database* from the Perspective menu; find and select the table you just created
    1. We can test our table definition by executing a simple SQL query
        1. Type in `SELECT * FROM STUDENTS` where *STUDENTS* shall be replaced with the name of your table and click on *Query*
        2. As an output you should get *Empty result set*
5. Time to create the sample data. Right click on the project in the Workspace explorer and choose *New*->*Data structure*
    1. Select *Delimeter Separated Values Sample Data* and click Next
    2. Find and select the table we have been working on. Click Next
    3. Click Finish
    4. Right click on the project inside the Workspace explorer and *Publish*
6. We query the table again by following the steps outlined in 4.1.1. We get the data we generated in Step 5 as an output.

## Related Information
